---
title: 'Interviewing and Networking Tips as Machine Learning New Grads'
date: 2020-10-23
permalink: /posts/2020/10/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Interviews
  - Networking
---

As a Ph.D. candidate with three internship experiences and closely related research experience, job hunting still took more than my expected time especially under the impact of the Pandemic.

The pandemic has brought us tremendous difficulties in job-seeking and I have got so much help from friends and strangers. So I would like to do something in return for the community. Here I summarized some tips from my personal experience over the past few months. If you are still struggling with job-seeking, it might provide you some inspirations!
 

# Coding Practice
Although MLE jobs have a lower expectation of coding than general SDE, most IT companies still need it. If you only have limited time to go through a limited number of problems, here are my personal suggestions— do it three times for each problem: 

1. Do it your own way; check the hint (not complete code) if you feel it is not optimal. For those ones would like a systematic way of learning the typical patterns on Codeing interviews, recommend to take the source of "Grokking the Coding Interview: Patterns for Coding Questions" in [Educative.io](https://www.educative.io/explore?aff=BwW8)
2. Compare your own code to the answers to find out what can be improved. Recommend to do this time in LeetCode 
Because it has more test case and run-time performance evaluations
3. Summarize the code ideas and write the complete pseudo-code in comments. 

To tackle the coding interview, practicing mock interviews is also very important.
1. Practice with your friend
2. Practice with strangers, e.g. Online Mock Interview platform: Pramp


# ML Concepts& algorithms
## Basic Concepts:

1. Cover the fields of statistics, linear algebra, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, and Computer Vision/NLP. Those are more important than code practice. Although these concepts are fundamental, they are very complex and require a certain amount of time to summarized and understand.    
2. If you have time, read through your lecture notes or online course materials. 
3. If not, read the summaries from medium or collected by others. (E.g.NoML--No Machine Learning)
4. Before the interview, collect and modify your personal "cheat sheet" and remove the content you thoroughly understood. 

## Basic Algorithm Coding for classic ML algorithms
1. If you have time, write all of the algorithms from scratch by yourself (e.g. [ML Code from Scratch](https://github.com/eriklindernoren/ML-From-Scratch))
2. If you not, focusing on the smaller-scale and not complicated ones considering the time constraints of interviews. E.g., decision trees, random forest, Logistic Regression, K-means, Perceptron/MLP, 
3. Programming for Deep Learning. Get familiar with the popular platform, e.g., PyTorch, TensorFlow, Keras, Caffe. Able to put together some simple models from scratch, e.g., classification on MNIST
 

#  CV/Resume
Keep in mind there always two purposes for CV/Resume

1. Attract HR's attention to get you to interview opportunities 
2. Lets the interviewer know your strengths and ask questions during the initial interview. 

For the contents, follows the STAR rules ([STAR Rules](https://zipjob.com/blog/star-method-resume/))
1. Use the classic formats. 
2. Consider adding the summary part to attract attention. 
3. The electronic version of the resume should attach the links of the code/report/article link of the project so that the interviewers can easily access the details. 
4. Upload your resume to the evaluation website to analyze whether there could be any improvement ([Online Assessment Website](https://resumeworded.com/) )
5. Prepare different versions of CV/Cover Letter for different types of companies and different positions. 
 
#  LinkedIn
1. Pick a professional profile photo. Show them your professional potential with a smile! 
2. Design a good personal "Headline" indicating your working experience and positions so that HR can search it by keywords, and others can know how to help you when you were replying or liking others' posts.
3. The importance of the "About" section is as important as the "summary" section in the CV
4. Using the "Media" option of each experience, similar to project links in CV


#  Portfolio
1. Choose a good template
2. Ask your friends about the suggestions 
3. Make sure every link is correct 
5. Add the fun part to your website 


#  Networking
1. The two main principles for Networking: Proactive and Respect: Express yourself bravely and confidently. Think about what you can bring to others before asking for help. 
2. If you have specific preferences for the jobs, start with searching the interesting job posts, and try to reach out to HR/HM/employees for detailed information or referral;
4. If not, search for keywords like "We are hiring" or "Open Positions" on Linkedin. In general, people with those titles are more open to connecting.
4. Short-term follow-up: Be sure to follow-up after meetings (or virtual meeting) with a message like "Glad to meet you in the [ ** occasion]." It might help remind how you meet each other even after a long time
5. Long-term follow-up:  Keep notes on the timeline for each network contact information, feedback, and the next step to do. Occasionally contact the recruiters when your CV has a major update). 
 

# Job Applications
1. Online application: 2-3% of the acceptance rate. The main reason that the passing rate is so low it that the people viewing your CV may not be very familiar with your field or your application likely get rejected because of different uncontrollable reasons, e.g., late graduation time, sponsor, typo, lack of keywords, candidates from the same school, etc.
2. The order of importance is the company official website > LinkedIn > glassdoor/indeed.
4. Do NOT go for an online application by yourself if you can get referrals from friends.
5. Summarize your online application updates and reject results. It will help prevent repeating online applications.
6. Keep in mind the application freezing period (generally, the freezing period of resumes rejection is much shorter than interview rejections)


 # Be Optimistic
Job seeking is definitely a long-term journey that requires tremendous time and effort. Even the most talented candidates seldom get the offer right after their first interview. So keep trying, keep failing, it is just a matter of time to get your offer after accumulations!